Israel's top diplomat in Shanghai held a
media briefing yesterday on the recent
conflict with Iran, calling on China to
help reign in Iran's military and
nuclear ambitions. Ravit Bear is the
Israeli council general in Shanghai and
she joins us now. Ravit, it's great to
have you on the program and thank you so
much for coming on. You're saying China
is the only one capable of influencing
Iran. Can you flesh that view for us and
really how much leverage Beijing really
has in this whole conflict?
Well, um, thank you for inviting me
today. Um, very happy to be here and
talk about, uh, what had happened until
last week, the 12-day, um, uh, operation
that we had in Iran. uh which was you
know and I and I did have a press
briefing yesterday and uh we spoke a lot
about what were the aims of this
operation and uh and the way we saw it
as as a major success in in lifting the
Iranian threat the mostly the Iranian
nuclear threat from the Middle East
region specifically on Israel but not
only um on us and we have spoken a lot
about uh what it meant you know if Iran
would have had a nuclear weapon and and
the fact that this threat, this imminent
I mean immediate threat has been lifted.
How is that very conducive to peace in
the Middle East for settlements uh for
um stopping any kinds of an arm race. Uh
we also spoke about the future and the
future should be uh a place where Iran
kind of gives up its ambitions to have a
nuclear weapon to have a nuclear
military program and that will require
some kind of an agreement or an
international negotiations that will
lead to an agreement which I think is is
probably plausible and in that scenario
China could have a very positive role.
China uh is a very important partner for
Iran. Iran's really economy is highly
reliant on the Chinese uh procurement of
oil uh and many other things and that
makes China um or puts China in a very
unique position in which it can
influence Iran and I think this is a
place where China can be a positive
actor and can contribute to uh an
agreement or a settlement uh in which
the international community and the IAEA
could lead some kind of a settled
agreement with Iran uh on not pursuing
their nuclear ambitions and having some
kind of a program uh that is um
acceptable for the world uh in that in
that arena and and and this is really
something in which China can be a very
positive um actor.
in console general David here in in what
specific way you think uh China can help
stabilize the situation.
I think just by you know engaging in
conversation with Iran. I mean they can
be good partners for the conversation.
Uh they could um use their kind of
diplomatic credit towards Iran in
influencing it to agree to a settled um
um you know kind of settled
agreement or some kind of settlement to
the situation in which they um give up
on their nuclear military ambitions and
receive something else from the
international community. I mean this
would be wonderful for Iran. It would be
beneficial for the country. It would be
extremely beneficial for the people of
Iran. The people of Iran are suffering
since 1979 under an oppressive,
horrible, a radical Shia Islam uh
tyranny and and which led them to this
situation in which they are under
international sanctions regime uh and
their economy is you know failing for
many years now and it's in critical
condition. So, you know, a settled um um
a settled agreement with the
international community uh on the
Iranian nuclear topic will bring to
sanctions relief, will bring prosperity,
will be extremely beneficial for Iran.
But Iran needs someone to help it and
make that correct decision, go into
negotiations, go into settled agreement.
And this is where China has the position
to make this dialogue, make this
discussion. uh with Iran and uh and push
it in the right you know in the right uh
path and I think um this is this puts
China in a very uh important position
and you know mind you that you know
China is a very important member of the
international community it's a member of
of the P5 at the security council it has
prominent position in the IAEA it's even
been a signatory to the uh nuclear
agreement uh of 2015 the JCPOA So I
think it would be wonderful if if China
would take this um position would lead
Iran in the right path and really create
a situation in which Israel and the
Middle East and the Iran the neighbors
to Iran are safer um
knowing that Iran will never pursue
again a nuclear military program.
Um they China also buys around 90% of
Iran's oil. I'm just wondering in terms
of the economic ties, is that a point
where you think that Beijing can
actually leverage here in trying to get
Iran to change its activities in the
region?
Well, I think it's always true that when
you know when you have an economic
leverage on on another country, you are
more influential. I think that, you
know, kind of goes without saying. and
uh uh and China knows that and Iran
knows that and uh and you know they can
connect the dots I guess.
Right. Well, if you could help connect
that for us as well. Is the is the call
for China to buy less Iranian oil?
Um
I think um
unfortunately a lot of the money and the
revenues that come from selling oil uh
Iranian oil in Iran goes to Iran malign
activities in the region. Um this is
quite remarkable to that a country in
such a terrible economic situation like
Iran and if you look at the numbers uh
their value of their currencies in
all-time low they're in an economic
crisis they have uh you know
unbelievable te death death uh but still
throughout for many years they took
whatever revenues they did get into the
system and diverted so much of it in
order to sponsor for example their
proxies in the region like uh in
Lebanon, like the Houthis that
threatened both Israel, but also you
know the immediate neighbors of Iran,
like Saudi Arabia and the UAE. Um
militias in Syria and in in in Iraq. So
so much of the limited funds that came
into uh Iran from selling oil went to
those malign activities and so much went
into the nuclear program, the military
nuclear program, billions and billions
of dollars and their ballistic missiles
program. Um and I don't know the exact
numbers but I can tell you this is
substantial amount from whatever
budget this country has. So um so I
think it is important to understand that
whatever you're buying from Iran,
a lot of that a lot of that fund that
will go into Iran will be diverted to
malign activities to threatening its
neighbors and as an Israeli
representative they specifically
threaten us with different ways. You
know they've been planning
um you know for many many years and we
actually have evidence for that. They've
been planning the the annihilation of
the Jewish state. Uh, you know, this is
a a very firm ideology that Israel
should not exist at all. I mean, we're
not talking about, you know, two-state
solutions or settled or it's not even a
Palestinian issue. They're talking about
destroying completely the presence of
Jews in the Middle East and uh and the
Jewish state in the Middle East. And
they do that uh by all these means by
developing a military nuclear program,
ballistic missiles and arming and
training and funding all those uh
militias. So you know um when you think
about how can you stop that economic way
is one of those ways I guess.
Uh having said that Revy I'm wondering
Israel itself ha has never joined this
MPTU the treaty on the
non-prololiferation of nuclear weapons.
Do you think that it should?
I think this is uh this at the moment
it's not really a relevant question. I
mean we need to focus about what are the
actual threats in the Middle East. Iran
is signatory to the NPT. It has a
comprehensive safe safeguard agreement
signed with the IAEA and they have many
responsibilities about reporting and
about exposing all their activities
which they have been violating
consistently uh for the last 30 over 30
years now. Uh so I think this really
needs to focus needs to be the focus. I
mean this country Iran has been
threatening Israel in annihilation and
they haven't been doing it you know in
any covert way. They've been doing it
very publicly everyone from the supreme
leader and below him has said it
multiple times. And the fact that you if
you combine
such an aggressive regime that threatens
openly and in and quite you know
consistently the existence of another
country while developing a nuclear
weapon. I think that should be really
the focus of the international community
and console general. I think that we we
hear the message and the message is
clear that you know you know China
buying or having as you as you point out
and underscore economic leverage of Iran
will there's a card China can play there
to to to encourage more stability in the
Middle East. Just to take the other side
to that argument. I just I just want you
to hear your comments on this too. If
you know if if the Iranian economy
destabilizes won't that destabilize the
region as well?
Yeah, I totally agree with you. That's
why I'm thinking that an agreement in
which Iran gives up its nuclear military
ambitions would bring to all the
benefits that will stabilize Iran
economically. Um they will, you know,
they will have sanctions relief. They
will be uh a positive trade partner.
They will be able, you can a you know,
you can buy oil from them. they will be
they will return to the swift system. I
mean think about all the positive
benefits and then Iran you know you know
prospering would be a better you know
nation in this region but you cannot do
all of that while they have all these
you know negative aspirations. If this
country is pursuing a military uh uh
nuclear program aimed at the
annihilation of another country, it
makes no sense on supporting them
economically because this would actually
only pump up even more their ambitions
and their at least economic capabilities
to execute it. So I do think the right
path and and I don't think China
disagree with that. I think China has
declared all the time that it believes
that the right path is an agreement, a
diplomatic agreement and so on and so
forth. So I think that really aligns
with how China views the point. Uh so
you know I agree with you completely
that economic stability of Iran is an
interest of the international community
and of Israel but it has to come first
they have to give up you first I would
love for them to give up their ambition
to destroy the state of Israel. I think
this is would be a wonderful step ahead
but let's start with stopping their
military nuclear ambitions.